docs/compute/quickstart_javascript.md, before:

# Compute@Edge Quickstart for JavaScript

## TL/DR

To create a simple "Hello, World!" example, use the Fastly CLI to create an empty project and then modify the `src/index.js` file to emit "Hello, World!" instead of "OK".

There are a number of files deployed as part of this process, but they key files are the `fastly.toml` file and the `src/index.js` file.

This is described quickly here along with the CLI commands, and in more detail below.

=== "src/index.js"

    ```js
    /// <reference types="@fastly/js-compute" />
    
    addEventListener("fetch", (event) => event.respondWith(handleRequest(event)));
    
    async function handleRequest(event) {
      return new Response("Hello, World!", { status: 200 });
    }
    ```

=== "fastly.toml"
    ```toml
    # This file describes a Fastly Compute@Edge package. To learn more visit:
    # https://developer.fastly.com/reference/fastly-toml/

    authors = ["grokify"]
    description = "Fastly Compute@Edge \"Hello, World!\" Example App"
    language = "javascript"
    manifest_version = 2
    name = "Fastly Compute \"Hello, World!\""
    service_id = ""
    ```
=== "CLI commands"
    ```bash
    % mkdir fastly-compute-hello-world-js
    % cd fastly-compute-hello-world-js
    % fastly compute init
    % vi src/index.js
    % fastly compute publish --service-id=<YourServiceID> --token=<YourAPIToken>
    ```

At the end of this quickstart, you will see the following in your browser where "yoursubdomain" should be one of your choosing.

![](fastly_helloworld_website.png)

To use your own domain, see

## Prerequisites

1. [Fastly account](../../basics/account)
1. [Fastly API Token](../../basics/token)
1. [Fastly Service](../../basics/service)

## Creating the Empty Project Scaffold

> Note: the output in this program is from "Fastly CLI version v2.0.3 (112d60b) Built with go version go1.18.2 linux/amd64". Get the CLI by following [the instructions on the Fastly CLI page](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/cli/#installing).

On macOS, use the following:

`% brew install fastly/tap/fastly`

### Commands

```
% mkdir fastly-compute-hello-world-js
% cd fastly-compute-hello-world-js
% fastly compute init
```

### Output

```
% fastly compute init

Creating a new Compute@Edge project.

Press ^C at any time to quit.

Name: [fastly-compute-hello-world-js-2] Fastly Compute "Hello, World!"
Description: Fastly Compute@Edge "Hello, World!" Example App
Author: grokify
Language:
[1] Rust
[2] JavaScript
[3] AssemblyScript (beta)
[4] Other ('bring your own' Wasm binary)
Choose option: [1] 2
Starter kit:
[1] Default starter for JavaScript
    A basic starter kit that demonstrates routing, simple synthetic responses and
    overriding caching rules.
    https://github.com/fastly/compute-starter-kit-javascript-default
[2] Empty starter for JavaScript
    An empty application template for the Fastly Compute@Edge environment which simply
    returns a 200 OK response.
    https://github.com/fastly/compute-starter-kit-javascript-empty
Choose option or paste git URL: [1] 2

✓ Initializing...
✓ Fetching package template...
✓ Updating package manifest...
✓ Initializing package...

Initialized package Fastly Compute "Hello, World!" to:
	/Users/johnwang/go/src/github.com/grokify/fastly-compute-hello-world-js-2

To publish the package (build and deploy), run:
	fastly compute publish

To learn about deploying Compute@Edge projects using third-party orchestration tools, visit:
	https://developer.fastly.com/learning/integrations/orchestration/


SUCCESS: Initialized package Fastly Compute "Hello, World!"
```

This results in the following list of 5921 files and directories generated from a `tar -tf`. The vast majority of these are in the `node_modules` directory which isn't needed for our "Hello, World!" program.

[fastly-compute-hello-world-js.init.contents.txt](fastly-compute-hello-world-js.init.contents.txt)

The top level directory files are as follows without listing out all the files under `node_modules`.

```
.gitignore
README.md
fastly.toml
node_modules/*
npm-shrinkwrap.json
package.json
src/index.js
webpack.config.js
```

Of note, `.gitignore` omits the `node_modules` directory along with `bin` and `pkg` which haven't been created yet.

```
/node_modules
/bin
/pkg
```

#### Fastly.toml

The `fastly.toml` file looks like the following. You can add your Service ID here or add it later outside of this file for more deployment flexibility. This tutorial will supply the Service ID as a Fastly CLI command parameter below.

```toml
# This file describes a Fastly Compute@Edge package. To learn more visit:
# https://developer.fastly.com/reference/fastly-toml/

authors = ["grokify"]
description = "Fastly Compute@Edge \"Hello, World!\" Example App"
language = "javascript"
manifest_version = 2
name = "Fastly Compute \"Hello, World!\""
service_id = ""
```

## Writing the Code

The starter file is in the `src/index.js` location which has the following content:

```js
/// <reference types="@fastly/js-compute" />

addEventListener("fetch", (event) => event.respondWith(handleRequest(event)));

async function handleRequest(event) {
  return new Response("OK", { status: 200 });
}
```

### Hello, World!

To start, let's just modify the "OK" text to say "Hello, World!" as such:

```js
/// <reference types="@fastly/js-compute" />

addEventListener("fetch", (event) => event.respondWith(handleRequest(event)));

async function handleRequest(event) {
  return new Response("Hello, World!", { status: 200 });
}
```

The response can be enhanced with a `Content-Type` header as follows:

```js
async function handleRequest(event) {
  return new Response("Hello, World!", {
    status: 200,
    headers: new Headers({ "Content-Type": "text/html;charset=utf-8" }),
  });
}
```

### Further Reading on Code

See the following resources for more on writing Edge code in JavaScript:

1. [JS SDK Reference](https://js-compute-reference-docs.edgecompute.app/)
1. [JS Code Examples](https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/javascript/)
1. [JS Dev Guide](https://developer.fastly.com/learning/compute/javascript/)
1. [JS Starter Kits](http://127.0.0.1:8000/fastly-guide-unofficial/compute/starter_kits/)

## Uploading the Package

### Using the CLI

#### Specifying Your API Token

Before you upload the file, you will need to get a Fastly API token. You can create one from the Fastly Management Console by following the instructions on the [tokens page](../../basics/token).

A token is an alpha-numeric string that looks like the following:

`DRYzDkfSjieSDji82ie90830ehf02fDH`

You can use the token several ways:

* Via the Fastly CLI parameter `--token`
* Via the environment variable `FASTLY_API_TOKEN`
* Via the Fastly CLI profile using the commands from `% fastly profile --help`

For this Quickstart, we'll set the token using the environment variable such as following on macOS:

```bash
% export FASTLY_API_TOKEN=<YourFastlyAPIToken>
```

#### Publishing the Code

Fastly CLI has a number of commands to build and deploy the code. The following is an excerpt of the response from `$ fastly compute --help`:

```
COMMANDS
  compute
  build     Build a Compute@Edge package locally
  deploy    Deploy a package to a Fastly Compute@Edge service
  init      Initialize a new Compute@Edge package locally
  pack      Package a pre-compiled Wasm binary for a Fastly Compute@Edge service
  publish   Build and deploy a Compute@Edge package to a Fastly service
  serve     Build and run a Compute@Edge package locally
  update    Update a package on a Fastly Compute@Edge service version
  validate  Validate a Compute@Edge package
```

We want to both build the WASM binary and deploy it, so we'll use `publish`:

```bash
% fastly compute publish --service-id=<YourPackageServiceID>
✓ Initializing...
✓ Verifying package manifest...
✓ Verifying local javascript toolchain...
✓ Building package using javascript toolchain...
✓ Creating package archive...

SUCCESS: Built package 'Fastly-Compute-Hello-World' (pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz)


✓ Uploading package...
✓ Activating version...

Manage this service at:
	https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/<YourPackageServiceID>

View this service at:
	https://goodapis.global.ssl.fastly.net


SUCCESS: Deployed package (service <YourPackageServiceID>, version 1)
```

This will create the following files:

```
bin/index.js
bin/main.wasm
pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz
```

Doing a TAR list will show the file contents:

```
% tar -tf pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/bin/
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/bin/index.js
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/bin/main.wasm
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/fastly.toml
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/package.json
```

You can confirm the package upload in the Fastly Management Console at the following URL:

https://manage.fastly.com/compute/services/{YourServiceID}/versions/1/package

![](fastly_package_console_info.png)

You can also upload the package from the UI, in which case you will use `fastly compute build` to create the WASM file without uploading.

![](fastly_console_upload_package.png)

=== "Fastly CLI"
    To just build the WASM file locally, execute `fastly compute build` after which you can  upload the package manually via the UI or via the API yourself.

    ```bash
    % fastly compute build
    ✓ Initializing...
    ✓ Verifying package manifest...
    ✓ Verifying local javascript toolchain...
    ✓ Building package using javascript toolchain...
    ✓ Creating package archive...
    
    SUCCESS: Built package 'Fastly-Compute-Hello-World' (pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz)
    ```

## Add Domain to Service

Use the Fastly Management Console to add a domain to the service.

For this Quickstart, use a Fastly subdomain such as:

`<yoursubdomain>.global.ssl.fastly.net`

![](fastly_domain_yoursubdomain_img1.png)

![](fastly_domain_yoursubdomain_img2.png)

While the Management Console says you need to add a backend host to activate, this example does not require one and you can activate without one.

You can also use the Fastly API and SDKs to add a domain via the ["Add a domain name to a service" API](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/api/services/domain/#create-domain).

## Activate and Access The Service

![](fastly_helloworld_website.png)

Commit message:

fix: "Domains and TLS" links

docs/compute/quickstart_javascript.md, after:

# Compute@Edge Quickstart for JavaScript

## TL/DR

To create a simple "Hello, World!" example, use the Fastly CLI to create an empty project and then modify the `src/index.js` file to emit "Hello, World!" instead of "OK".

There are a number of files deployed as part of this process, but they key files are the `fastly.toml` file and the `src/index.js` file.

This is described quickly here along with the CLI commands, and in more detail below.

=== "src/index.js"

    ```js
    /// <reference types="@fastly/js-compute" />
    
    addEventListener("fetch", (event) => event.respondWith(handleRequest(event)));
    
    async function handleRequest(event) {
      return new Response("Hello, World!", { status: 200 });
    }
    ```

=== "fastly.toml"
    ```toml
    # This file describes a Fastly Compute@Edge package. To learn more visit:
    # https://developer.fastly.com/reference/fastly-toml/

    authors = ["grokify"]
    description = "Fastly Compute@Edge \"Hello, World!\" Example App"
    language = "javascript"
    manifest_version = 2
    name = "Fastly Compute \"Hello, World!\""
    service_id = ""
    ```
=== "CLI commands"
    ```bash
    % mkdir fastly-compute-hello-world-js
    % cd fastly-compute-hello-world-js
    % fastly compute init
    % vi src/index.js
    % fastly compute publish --service-id=<YourServiceID> --token=<YourAPIToken>
    ```

At the end of this quickstart, you will see the following in your browser where "yoursubdomain" should be one of your choosing.

![](fastly_helloworld_website.png)

To use your own domain, see the section on [Domains and TLS](../../basics/domains_and_tls)

## Prerequisites

1. [Fastly account](../../basics/account)
1. [Fastly API Token](../../basics/token)
1. [Fastly Service](../../basics/service)

## Creating the Empty Project Scaffold

> Note: the output in this program is from "Fastly CLI version v2.0.3 (112d60b) Built with go version go1.18.2 linux/amd64". Get the CLI by following [the instructions on the Fastly CLI page](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/cli/#installing).

On macOS, use the following:

`% brew install fastly/tap/fastly`

### Commands

```
% mkdir fastly-compute-hello-world-js
% cd fastly-compute-hello-world-js
% fastly compute init
```

### Output

```
% fastly compute init

Creating a new Compute@Edge project.

Press ^C at any time to quit.

Name: [fastly-compute-hello-world-js-2] Fastly Compute "Hello, World!"
Description: Fastly Compute@Edge "Hello, World!" Example App
Author: grokify
Language:
[1] Rust
[2] JavaScript
[3] AssemblyScript (beta)
[4] Other ('bring your own' Wasm binary)
Choose option: [1] 2
Starter kit:
[1] Default starter for JavaScript
    A basic starter kit that demonstrates routing, simple synthetic responses and
    overriding caching rules.
    https://github.com/fastly/compute-starter-kit-javascript-default
[2] Empty starter for JavaScript
    An empty application template for the Fastly Compute@Edge environment which simply
    returns a 200 OK response.
    https://github.com/fastly/compute-starter-kit-javascript-empty
Choose option or paste git URL: [1] 2

✓ Initializing...
✓ Fetching package template...
✓ Updating package manifest...
✓ Initializing package...

Initialized package Fastly Compute "Hello, World!" to:
	/Users/johnwang/go/src/github.com/grokify/fastly-compute-hello-world-js-2

To publish the package (build and deploy), run:
	fastly compute publish

To learn about deploying Compute@Edge projects using third-party orchestration tools, visit:
	https://developer.fastly.com/learning/integrations/orchestration/


SUCCESS: Initialized package Fastly Compute "Hello, World!"
```

This results in the following list of 5921 files and directories generated from a `tar -tf`. The vast majority of these are in the `node_modules` directory which isn't needed for our "Hello, World!" program.

[fastly-compute-hello-world-js.init.contents.txt](fastly-compute-hello-world-js.init.contents.txt)

The top level directory files are as follows without listing out all the files under `node_modules`.

```
.gitignore
README.md
fastly.toml
node_modules/*
npm-shrinkwrap.json
package.json
src/index.js
webpack.config.js
```

Of note, `.gitignore` omits the `node_modules` directory along with `bin` and `pkg` which haven't been created yet.

```
/node_modules
/bin
/pkg
```

#### Fastly.toml

The `fastly.toml` file looks like the following. You can add your Service ID here or add it later outside of this file for more deployment flexibility. This tutorial will supply the Service ID as a Fastly CLI command parameter below.

```toml
# This file describes a Fastly Compute@Edge package. To learn more visit:
# https://developer.fastly.com/reference/fastly-toml/

authors = ["grokify"]
description = "Fastly Compute@Edge \"Hello, World!\" Example App"
language = "javascript"
manifest_version = 2
name = "Fastly Compute \"Hello, World!\""
service_id = ""
```

## Writing the Code

The starter file is in the `src/index.js` location which has the following content:

```js
/// <reference types="@fastly/js-compute" />

addEventListener("fetch", (event) => event.respondWith(handleRequest(event)));

async function handleRequest(event) {
  return new Response("OK", { status: 200 });
}
```

### Hello, World!

To start, let's just modify the "OK" text to say "Hello, World!" as such:

```js
/// <reference types="@fastly/js-compute" />

addEventListener("fetch", (event) => event.respondWith(handleRequest(event)));

async function handleRequest(event) {
  return new Response("Hello, World!", { status: 200 });
}
```

The response can be enhanced with a `Content-Type` header as follows:

```js
async function handleRequest(event) {
  return new Response("Hello, World!", {
    status: 200,
    headers: new Headers({ "Content-Type": "text/html;charset=utf-8" }),
  });
}
```

### Further Reading on Code

See the following resources for more on writing Edge code in JavaScript:

1. [JS SDK Reference](https://js-compute-reference-docs.edgecompute.app/)
1. [JS Code Examples](https://developer.fastly.com/solutions/examples/javascript/)
1. [JS Dev Guide](https://developer.fastly.com/learning/compute/javascript/)
1. [JS Starter Kits](http://127.0.0.1:8000/fastly-guide-unofficial/compute/starter_kits/)

## Uploading the Package

### Using the CLI

#### Specifying Your API Token

Before you upload the file, you will need to get a Fastly API token. You can create one from the Fastly Management Console by following the instructions on the [tokens page](../../basics/token).

A token is an alpha-numeric string that looks like the following:

`DRYzDkfSjieSDji82ie90830ehf02fDH`

You can use the token several ways:

* Via the Fastly CLI parameter `--token`
* Via the environment variable `FASTLY_API_TOKEN`
* Via the Fastly CLI profile using the commands from `% fastly profile --help`

For this Quickstart, we'll set the token using the environment variable such as following on macOS:

```bash
% export FASTLY_API_TOKEN=<YourFastlyAPIToken>
```

#### Publishing the Code

Fastly CLI has a number of commands to build and deploy the code. The following is an excerpt of the response from `$ fastly compute --help`:

```
COMMANDS
  compute
  build     Build a Compute@Edge package locally
  deploy    Deploy a package to a Fastly Compute@Edge service
  init      Initialize a new Compute@Edge package locally
  pack      Package a pre-compiled Wasm binary for a Fastly Compute@Edge service
  publish   Build and deploy a Compute@Edge package to a Fastly service
  serve     Build and run a Compute@Edge package locally
  update    Update a package on a Fastly Compute@Edge service version
  validate  Validate a Compute@Edge package
```

We want to both build the WASM binary and deploy it, so we'll use `publish`:

```bash
% fastly compute publish --service-id=<YourPackageServiceID>
✓ Initializing...
✓ Verifying package manifest...
✓ Verifying local javascript toolchain...
✓ Building package using javascript toolchain...
✓ Creating package archive...

SUCCESS: Built package 'Fastly-Compute-Hello-World' (pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz)


✓ Uploading package...
✓ Activating version...

Manage this service at:
	https://manage.fastly.com/configure/services/<YourPackageServiceID>

View this service at:
	https://goodapis.global.ssl.fastly.net


SUCCESS: Deployed package (service <YourPackageServiceID>, version 1)
```

This will create the following files:

```
bin/index.js
bin/main.wasm
pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz
```

Doing a TAR list will show the file contents:

```
% tar -tf pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/bin/
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/bin/index.js
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/bin/main.wasm
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/fastly.toml
Fastly-Compute-Hello-World/package.json
```

You can confirm the package upload in the Fastly Management Console at the following URL:

https://manage.fastly.com/compute/services/{YourServiceID}/versions/1/package

![](fastly_package_console_info.png)

You can also upload the package from the UI, in which case you will use `fastly compute build` to create the WASM file without uploading.

![](fastly_console_upload_package.png)

=== "Fastly CLI"
    To just build the WASM file locally, execute `fastly compute build` after which you can  upload the package manually via the UI or via the API yourself.

    ```bash
    % fastly compute build
    ✓ Initializing...
    ✓ Verifying package manifest...
    ✓ Verifying local javascript toolchain...
    ✓ Building package using javascript toolchain...
    ✓ Creating package archive...
    
    SUCCESS: Built package 'Fastly-Compute-Hello-World' (pkg/Fastly-Compute-Hello-World.tar.gz)
    ```

## Add Domain to Service

Use the Fastly Management Console to add a domain to the service.

For this Quickstart, use a Fastly subdomain such as:

`<yoursubdomain>.global.ssl.fastly.net`

![](fastly_domain_yoursubdomain_img1.png)

![](fastly_domain_yoursubdomain_img2.png)

While the Management Console says you need to add a backend host to activate, this example does not require one and you can activate without one.

You can also use the Fastly API and SDKs to add a domain via the ["Add a domain name to a service" API](https://developer.fastly.com/reference/api/services/domain/#create-domain).

## Activate and Access The Service

![](fastly_helloworld_website.png)
